In my experience, one of the hardest parts of learning
Spark is becoming familiar with the functional style of programming.
Under the hood, Spark is written
in a functional programming language called Scala.
When you're programming with functional languages,
you end up solving problems in a pretty different way than you
would if you're using a general purpose language like Python.
Although Spark is written in Scala,
you can use it with other languages
like Java, R, and even Python.
In this course, you'll be developing applications with
the Python programming interface or PySpark for short.
Even when you're using the PySpark API,
you'll see the functional programming influence of Scala.
For example, in the last lesson,
Udith showed you a MapReduce problem
that counted up the number of times a song was played.
This code went through each record and spit out
a tuple with the name of the song, and the number one.
These tuples were shuffled and
reduced to sum up of the ones that came with each song name.
If you're used to counting with For Loops and found that logic a little strange,
it's because this was a functional approach to summing up songs,
and the procedural style that most Python programmers know,
you'd use a counter variable to keep track of the play count for each song.
Then you'd iterate through all the songs,
and increment the counter by one if the song name matched.
If you want to use Spark effectively,
you'll have to go beyond the procedural style,
and get comfortable with a few tools from functional programming.